THIS FILM IS BASED ON REAL EVENTS
The things I'm imagining,
the things that engage my attention,
are all taking place
in some made-up metareality.
Let's say I fire up my computer
to order a tuned-up
version of Alicia Silverstone
with major sadistic tendencies built in,
lower her age to 18
and extend her legs by 10 centimeters.
I want her to make me feel like trash,
so I program her to have 6 PhDs,
tenure at MIT,
the strength of Andrzej Golota
and a black belt in karate,
then I click "Apply".
My doorbell rings.
There's a nude 18-year-old MIT professor
with 6 PhDs right outside.
She kicks me in the gut,
knocks me down, ties me up and gags me,
then spends 2 hours sitting on my head,
smothering me in various ways,
breaking my arms and legs,
snapping my fingers like twigs
and ripping off my nails.
I orgasm time after time,
then convulse and die.
So that's what you need
these computers for...
But I won't live to see
this type of virtual reality come true.
See you, Maestro.
Later!
THE LAST FAMILY
This building has an incredible face!
Look, Zdzisio!
Do you see it, dear?
Take a picture.
Personally,
I prefer that head with the antennas.
I'm just saying
that it looks interesting.
- But Zosia, I never said it didn't!
- I don't think anyone lives there yet.
That's good! Maybe they heard
that Tomek Beksinski is moving in!
Oh, Beksinski...
He's been awfully lonely.
Good God... I keep telling him:
start going to lectures,
you'll surely meet someone!
He says that getting up
for his 8AM class
would cost him
To the top.
Does my breath reek?
No, sonny.
At least it's close by.
Oh, come on.
It's natural for a construction site
to smell of concrete, plaster,
glue and smokes...
Tommy! What's going on? What's this?
Shit. The mark of the working class.
- Hi, Tomek.
- Leave me alone!
Come in, please.
Lovely! It's going to be so nice here!
Concrete. I like this smell.
Good Lord,
what is she doing by that window?
What are you doing there, you poor thing?
Look, Ma.
That's just pitiful.
- What's wrong?
- I just got zapped.
Zapped?! But how?!
I'll file a complaint...
Suits you right!
Fucking Warsaw, see!
Everything's still under warranty...
How are you going to handle
living here alone, Tomek?
- I'm going back to Sanok.
- But there's nothing there anymore...
- I'm not gonna live here!
- But look at the gorgeous view...
Smash this.
See? It's fine.
It's been raining all day long.
Had to take an umbrella
when I went shopping.
I'll check the barometer.
God, what a day.
- Are you all right, Ma?
- I'm reading.
- Ma...
- Zosia!
There! Over there...
It's okay. It's all right.
Come on, don't be afraid,
you'll go back outside safe and sound.
I just can't get anything done today.
My head's been
bloody pounding since morning.
I'm still upset about Tomek.
He's going through this
mental All Souls phase right now...
Want to take a pill?
I already took some, my heart's acting up.
You could go see him...
- Say you went for a walk...
- In this weather?!
Or bring him a record...
I'm going, I'm going.
Jesus!
You scared the living daylights out of me!
- Do you want to kill me or something?
- And you?
What time is it?
I've only been asleep for 2 hours!
Have some fucking mercy, man!
- What are you doing here, anyway?
- I broke your door down.
- I'll go get my tools and fix it.
- I can't believe it!
- I knocked and rang the doorbell...
- Bloody hell, this is my apartment!
I know. And I think you're right.
But your mother's concerned.
You skipped lunch
for the second day in a row.
I can't get any work done
when the girls keep gabbing...
- Get it?
- All right, fine.
If I had some gal here?
What would you do?
In that case I'd be happy
to beg your pardon and eat my hat.
Aren't you happy now?
I am, but I'm worried
about your door and my shoulder.
The ache radiates
all the way down to my fingers.
- You're concerned about me?
- How could we not be concerned?!
We're not the monsters
you might be taking us for!
Listen...
Listen, I need some...
Maybe a dog or something.
I feel I'm going
to go bonkers out here.
Or maybe I could see a doctor...
I'll fix you an appointment.
Oh, sorry.
Thanks, Pops.
- Thanks. Bye.
- Bye...
Mother of God!
My first cat was all white.
Her name was Justyna.
She was such a lovely little fuzzball.
She chewed through my video player's
power cord and got electrocuted.
Eleonora... A big black cat.
She wandered out to the balcony, fell off
and died on the sidewalk
in front of the building.
So I quit caring about animals.
I want you to talk to me
like a human being!
Fuck! One of these days
I'll bring a bottle of gasoline
and pour it all over your apartment.
We'll see if you keep sitting
and staring at me,
or finally show
a glimpse of human reaction!
I need a reaction!
Shit, I need a response!
What am I supposed to do?
Pitch an ashtray at you or what?
I remember
seeing a nude...
which looked perfectly terrifying
because it was stitched together,
as if falling apart.
Just like this face.
It's not stitched together
or falling apart.
- But it's covered up.
- Yes, it's covered.
What about the landscape behind you?
The cross - that means eternity, right?
And a shred of some living being.
You can't tell me it's a happy picture.
It's not happy,
but why would you call it tragic?
It looks like the aftermath of a tragedy.
I don't know...
Thank you. That'll be all.
Thank you very much.
- Thanks, Zosia.
- Sugar?
- No, thanks.
- Congratulations!
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
We'll button this right up...
Let's go.
Yesterday I thought I was about to die.
I even dreamed about my funeral,
woke up in this little coffin...
And today I'm just too alive.
Oh, I'm sorry.
You didn't bother me none.
While we're on the subject...
Who'll be the first one in the tomb
out of our household?
I haven't given it a lot of thought...
But our Tomek
could end up buried first.
That's what I think too...
but we'll keep it a secret.
A secret.
Where are my glasses?
There's never enough pepper.
Go slow and chew well.
I named this dish Beksinski's Delight
and they picked it up already!
I eat like a pig.
Spilled food all over myself, as usual.
Stravinsky was
one hell of a sloppy eater,
he splashed food around
the neighboring tables and loudly slurped:
"That's so good!"
Zosia!
What is this shit?
Not bad.
I'll take it.
Hi, Tomek!
Fucking Tommy-kins!
Lighting up already, eh?
It's my house.
I'll reheat this for you.
Go on, sit down.
Get out of the kitchen, all of you!
I'll cook on my own!
People should only get 50 years to live
before they're terminated
with a lethal injection.
Enough with these utopian
People in power tend to be
men around the age of 50.
They wouldn't exactly let you
give them a lethal injection.
So they shouldn't be in power! Fine.
But life isn't about
what should or shouldn't be.
If it was, we'd be living in a perfect
world. You've taken classes in dialectics,
so you shouldn't be this juvenile!
Spouting these fairytale lines.
I know I'm 50,
but that's not what pisses me off!
- Here. Just the chunky bits.
- Fine...
Ketchup!
- This gets me wet.
- Perfectly fresh.
At least he's not running around
with a razor,
threatening to slice up his grandmas!
I only consider knives and razor blades
in relation to my own wrists.
You ought to get
into some classmate's slit instead.
- Maybe that'd disinhibit you some.
- You go get into someone's slit!
Oh, stop it.
Such a serious father-son talk.
When someone's having
love troubles or something,
the other guy tells him:
go screw someone, it'll help!
People don't normally hang out
their love troubles for all to see,
like "Hey, I'm having love troubles,
come cry with me a bit".
It's enough to get a guy flustered!
That's why folks resort to crude lines.
It's a tough-guy thing,
not an attempt at actual advice.
What could you advise
in that situation?
Turns out some people
are capable of providing advice
without resorting to idiotic cracks!
Have I ever resorted
to idiotic cracks with you?
I don't mean you,
I mean in general.
I made this joke
because I thought about the word "slit".
It's a popular expression,
quite widespread in Warsaw...
Not just in Warsaw, dear!
- What are you going to do, Tomek?
- I'm going back to sleep.
I can't see anything.
Sweet Jesus!
- Don't touch him!
- Sweetheart!
Therapy will be over in 10 minutes.
Here's something for your trouble.
Thank you.
Jesus, Zdzisiek,
do you see it?
He's holding hands with a girl!
He looks so happy!
Sonny dearest...
Wait...
Sorry.
Yes...
What? What happened?
Wait, that's it?
- There's nothing more to it?
- Tell me what else you'd like to try.
I don't know!
There weren't any bells or fireworks!
Please, Helena, I beg you...
- You ruined it!
- Are you on the Pill?
I don't know!
What did I do?
What's going on?
Helena, open the door.
Do you hear me?
Open the door!
Open up!
If you want to drown yourself,
do it in your own bathtub!
Fuck! This is my house. I'm the only one
allowed to kill myself here!
Alert! Alert!
The Gestapo's coming!
Thank you.
Tomek draws near.
Please, Zosia, go sit
in the living room with a crossword.
This isn't going to be a disaster!
Ma, turn on the TV
and start reading "Life"!
Good morning, Mom.
Good morning, Tomek.
May I come in?
This is your house too.
- Hi, Pops.
- Hi, Tomek.
Mommy, come here for a sec...
I have a problem.
Helena locked herself in the bathroom
again. She doesn't want to come out.
Dunno if she's drowning herself
in there or what. I'm dead scared.
Go to your father. Go on.
- I don't want to be with her anymore.
- Sure, sure.
Thanks, Mommy.
Jeez. I feel like an idiot.
I have a tape
I wanted you to copy.
And on top of that
I have those damn classes this week...
As far as I'm concerned,
you don't have to graduate.
There's no point if you don't want to.
You could keep learning on your own.
You're great at it.
Make a living teaching English.
Any idiot could graduate,
so that's what I'm going to do.
I ordered those tapes for you already.
I'll bring them over
as soon as they get here.
I'll spend the night.
Oh, joy!
Where is that... Ah, OK.
How about...
If the entirety of our family life
and interaction
is going to consist of kicking
right in the most vulnerable spots,
if that's going to be
the extent of our intimacy...
I get it, Zosia.
But no one promised that family life
would be sunshine and rainbows.
All right, the Church does promise that,
and the Constitution states
that the family is the basic unit
of the Socialist society and so on...
But nowhere is it implicitly said that
a family is anything but a group of people
who like and dislike each other
in equal measure.
According to Jungian theory,
every major one-sided emotion
goes along with its powerful,
suppressed opposite,
which will eventually raise its head.
If you loved
your mother or father as a child,
after a while you're
going to feel like beating them up...
I don't know if that's right.
I've never felt this way.
I think I have.
Today's guest of our radio station's
first Top Hits program
is the young Tomasz Beksinski.
Before the broadcast Tomek
asked me to call him the Enthusiast -
an enthusiast of good music.
He's going to play us a new record
from his massive collection.
For the first time on Polish radio
a guest will have the mic.
Good morning.
I'm Tomek.
Tomasz Beksinski.
I'd like to play the debut album
of the British duo Yazoo:
"Upstairs at Eric's."
This is a brand-new record, of course,
it came out some 3 months ago.
This British band
was formed by Vincent Clarke,
formerly of Depeche Mode,
along with Alison Moyet.
Let's start with the
first track: "Don't Go".
- Attaboy!
- Yes!
I'll be afraid to switch on the radio.
It's a little amateurish.
I've been thinking about that man who's
coming tomorrow. He could be important.
- I'll turn it up for you, Ma.
- Thank you.
- I think it's him.
- With a dame?
No, alone.
- Just stay calm, Zosia.
- I'm calm.
- Please come in!
- Good morning.
Come on in.
My name is Piotr Dmochowski.
I'm an attorney with
a law firm in Paris.
- In Paris!
- Zdzislaw Beksinski, engineer, M.Sc.
This is my mother, Stanislawa Beksinska.
Retired Polish teacher.
This is my wife, Zofia Beksinska.
She has a degree in Romance studies.
- Pleased to meet you.
- Guten morgen!
- And this... is my firstborn.
- Tomasz! Beksinski as well.
- Movie translator, radio show host...
- An Enthusiast!
- A genius father and a genius son...
- And the Holy Spirit.
Amen!
Come into the living room.
- Can I get you something to drink?
- No, thank you.
- I don't want to be a bother.
- That's no bother at all...
I've been a longtime
admirer of your talent.
I don't want to be a bother,
but if you could allow me
to see your latest paintings
and purchase a few
for my private collection.
I'm not in charge of selling my paintings.
The art gallery I work with
has exclusive sales rights in Poland.
How about abroad?
If they're to be taken abroad, you're
welcome to interact with them directly.
- I'm glad to hear this.
- Likewise!
Oh, by the way...
Stanislawa Stankiewicz,
Zosia's mother, a farmer,
lives in our flat as well,
but she's asleep at the moment.
This isn't what I expected.
You seem so upbeat...
Me, upbeat?!
Your home and family
look so ordinary, too.
I was expecting a gloomy castle...
We chased our rats
and spiders out for a walk,
stuffed all our skeletons
in closets, don't you know...
Oh, I'm sure.
You have a delightful sense of humor.
Is this your studio?
- The Holy Land, of course...
- It's never been holy.
Christ!
That's from the 70s.
The fantastic period?
I didn't choose this label
and I don't particularly like it.
Are they for sale?
They belong to my wife.
They're my retirement fund.
A marvellous collection!
Congratulations!
- Thank you.
- I'd snap them right up if I could.
Sorry, I couldn't do without them.
They're my pets.
I have 9 in total...
Come, I'll show you the rest.
Oh, I'm sorry. Go on in.
Wonderful!
Marvellous!
I didn't know you were a ghost.
- That's just one of these things.
- Performance art?
More like a joke, a farewell to Sanok...
But no one thought it was funny.
Incredible!
My father painted these between
He improved significantly back in '74.
That's these two...
I think I like
this head most of all.
I liked about 75%
of that year's paintings.
75% were cool, 50% were decent,
awesome, and 5% of these
were absolutely amazing.
If you compared
that crap to his present...
- So your father's evolving artistically?
- Could be.
There's something about his art
that he doesn't deign
to notice about beat bands.
He thinks every new album
is worse than the last.
He doesn't let Mom and me
talk about his paintings,
says it gives him painter's block.
This one's from this year,
the last one I managed to beg off of him.
There are 13 paintings in my collection.
Guess that's gonna be it.
They're masterpieces.
Even better
than your mother's collection.
Could you entertain the idea
of ever selling them to me?
- What if I...
- No!
All right, I won't insist.
Fantastic.
Would you let me
look at them a little longer?
All right.
He reminds me of Ferdinand the Bull.
- I don't know...
- Sure, Zosia,
but I have the impression that he's here
on behalf of some rich French businessman
who'd rather remain anonymous.
After going on and on about
the importance of creative freedom
you're going to hitch yourself
to the wheel now?!
He's not forcing me into anything!
I have to provide 12 paintings per year,
out of my 20-odd yearly average.
$12,000 a year is a fortune in Poland!
I'll be able to focus on painting
without worrying about money,
about our grandmothers, or about you!
- 12,000 dollars?!
- Oops! Excuse me...
Zosia... Let me make
one thing clear right away:
no need to pass around
the Christmas wafer!
No hugging or,
God forbid, kissing.
I don't do it myself and I don't ask
that of anyone. All the best, folks!
Tuck in.
- Beksinski...
- I like beer!
I know exactly what you mean.
I'm not big on beer...
- And cigarettes even less so.
- There'll be time to talk later.
- Turn off the TV.
- Okay, I'll just find Channel 3.
Turn it off!
This makes me wet.
In the name of the Father
and Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be Thy name,
- Thy kingdom come...
- What'd you buy?
- Guess.
- Where's my present?
Check down there.
See, son?
- Gotcha!
- Exactly.
Gotcha, buddy!
- Give it here!
- Got scissors?
This is Zdzislaw Beksinski.
Today is...
And this is my beloved spouse!
Your beloved spouse
is feeling extremely camera-shy.
But why, Zosia?
Don't bother me
or I'll spoil the pierogi!
You'll see yourself...
Get on with it.
I don't have time for that!
Zoom in on my face.
Jeez! It's zooming on its own! How come?
You can set it to automatic zoom.
- What an awful closeup.
- Is it an awful closeup?
Yes. Here you go.
I filmed the whole room already, Tomek.
But I'm feeling a bit neglected
and under-recorded myself.
- I'm going to bed, Zdzisiu.
- I'm coming!
Let him get me on film.
Wait a moment, will you?
Zdzislaw Beksinski.
Incredible!
Introducing Ultravox
and their biggest hit-
"Dancing with Tears in my Eyes".
Weeping for the memory
of a life gone by...
This is exactly what I wanted to do
today in Rzeszow!
- What's your name?
- Patrycja.
Patrycja: Forever and ever.
What a fabulous room!
- Are these all yours?
- Yes, of course!
- Could you put them back in their spots?
- Are these your pictures?
My old man painted them, so they're mine,
as in, they belong to me.
Because this is my crypt.
Mind if I smoke?
Well... Sure, but...
This is my collection of LPs
and reel-to-reel tapes.
Mind if I kiss you?
When in Egypt,
drink straight from the source...
What's wrong? Do you think I'm funny?
I think you're amusing.
So can I kiss you?
I have a very interesting collection
of video tapes in the other room...
Did I do something wrong?
I don't know what happened.
Got an awful headache...
Mr Dmochowski,
I can't have you ordering a painting
and then not paying
because you're short on money.
I set that one aside
and you end up buying another one.
I'm not in a rush to sell my paintings,
but I consider them sold!
You're asking too much, I'm scared.
And don't tell me
what you'd like me to paint!
Let's not talk about my art,
or anyone else's.
It just blocks my creativity.
Yes, yes.
I made you a list of records to buy.
Remember to get the right ones.
I'll trade them for a few paintings.
I know, yes.
I understand. Thank you.
Best regards to your wife.
All right...
I'm going to pinch your butt.
Be a brave boy.
Press down on it.
You'll live.
E-fucking-nough!
Enough of the fucking babysitting!
- Tomek, what are you doing?
- Are you blind or what?
I'm smashing up the fucking kitchen!
Beksinski, get out.
There, there, Zosia...
It's nothing.
Have mercy...
Maybe you're too rough about...
These things.
I'm not rough about these things.
I only feel something when I want
to undress someone. Later - nothing.
Because you ought to slowly
get used to that someone.
Slowly, gradually, bit by bit...
Don't you get it?
I don't feel anything at all.
Even if I feel anything,
it's more like revulsion.
When I think about men -
Jeez, they disgust me,
couldn't even touch them! And women...
I don't really want them.
It's ridiculous
and I can't take it anymore.
Their constant chatter
gets on my nerves.
All that humor,
all these jokes, those stories
about your friend's dog
puking or something...
Why should I give a fuck?
When did you lock yourself into this box?
- You used to be different.
- What box?
That's how I see your
total disregard for other people.
- When Betti started smoking.
- Oh, Tomek...
- Guess I should kill myself after all.
- Don't talk like this!
Back then I already knew
I should get it over with for good,
but everyone
kept telling me I shouldn't...
- Tell me, I want to understand.
- Even back then I couldn't take it.
How could the fact of someone picking up
smoking be so devastating, though?
How many times did I tell you
not to take it literally?
How many times?!
All right,
baby, tell me what's going on.
What's going on is,
I had this perfect concept
of the way everything was:
my life, the world, other people...
And the person I was in love with -
but not like a normal guy,
because I'm not normal
in the first place.
But how did you get the idea
that perfection was real?
Do you think you're perfect?
How did I get this idea?
- From books, movies, and songs!
- What do you mean?
Even song lyrics talk about problems...
Sure, but Good always wins.
Everyone's happy and huggy,
love is pure, beautiful,
and immaculate, and so on...
How do you think
people end up with love like this?
It's a long,
long road to this kind of love.
- Sure, sure... But it's out there.
- It is.
- And it doesn't exist in the real world!
- You're wrong. It exists.
The fuck it does!
You convinced yourself
that it's not real...
But it exists.
I believe it does.
It's claustrophobic.
I can't get out of this.
Wherever I go,
I have to act like other people,
do what everyone else does.
I've got to play a role to get
the things I want or to be liked.
I have to keep acting.
I can't get out of this.
- You don't have to.
- I'm fed up.
You're not yourself.
You're right...
I'm not myself.
Why?
You ought to get back to yourself,
step by step.
But there's no myself anymore!
I don't exist anymore!
I'm my own corpse or something.
I could run a concentration camp
and get some payback...
- For what?
- For being alive. For living.
Life is the greatest gift of all!
Fat lot of good it gave me.
Such a wonderful gift!
What'd it get me? Fuck...
Tell me, what do I get out of it?
What did it get me?
No, you tell me
what you did to feel this gift.
- The gift of life.
- Why should I work for it, though?
Have I wanted it?
I'm asking you, did I want it?
The fuck should I work for it?
- Tell me, Tomek...
- I'm fed up.
Do you like it?
Does being this way make you happy?
Don't you want to change?
Oh sure, it makes me
masochistically happy!
I can't and don't want
to get out of this.
- You've never tried to change.
- Dad sees it too.
3 days ago we went to the movies.
I watched you a
few days before that, too,
and you seemed absolutely fine.
What happened
over the last couple of days?
Nothing happened.
Except for the fact
that if you keep carrying a heavy load,
eventually you'll get tired.
I just fell over yesterday.
- I didn't see you carrying a load.
- I'm glad you didn't!
Your dad and I want to help you.
We're showing you kindness and heart,
we're reaching out to you,
but you want to cut off our hands...
- Why?
- You literally cannot do anything!
What's the point
of all that goddamn talking?
Zosia...
I have a sore right there...
- It hurts...
- Maybe cupping would help her.
Cupping over damaged skin?!
Go back to bed, Ma!
It hurts!
Good grief...
- How about this one?
- Yes, it's happier.
- It hurts, Zosia...
- I know, Mother.
- Thank you.
- Get some rest.
Come back to me, son!
Do you hear me? Come back!
Don't you leave your mom!
Come back, baby...
There's only room for one.
You go, I'll catch up.
Maybe it's wrong to save him.
Listen, you have a lot of clout
in this place...
Stop it!
He didn't want to live.
He's just going to suffer.
- Come on, I'll give you a shot.
- No, I'm fine.
He was just afraid to live!
I think suicide
is a very brave and courageous act.
If he decided to end it, we should...
Sorry, that's nonsense.
Why did you call the ambulance, then?
What about the cops?
- Fill her up, please.
- OK.
Too bad...
I wouldn't want to go like that.
I'd like to die before you.
I think women have it worse.
Men just sort of...
Is Madame still alive?
The way a plant is alive...
Excuse me, Zosia.
Have you watched Herzog's
"Nosferatu" with Klaus Kinski?
Yes. Wonderful film.
Phenomenal.
Simply phenomenal!
I saw it around 5 times...
Want some Coke?
- Got to show the whole thing...
- Do an awful closeup!
You can start zooming now.
You're standing so far apart
I can't get you both in the frame...
Hello, everyone!
We hope you're ready for an exciting ride!
You'll get to see another chapter
of the adventures of 007.
Plenty of shooting, plenty of intrigue
and a cherry on top:
the gorgeous Barbara Bach
as Major Amasova!
Think everyone already here, right?
Okay, folks, get ready
for Tomasz Beksinski and Roger Moore!
Roger Moore...
As James Bond, 007,
in "The Spy Who Loved Me".
Also starring...
...the grave of Johannes
Hevelius was discovered
at St Catherine's Church in GdaƄsk,
exactly one year before the 300th
anniversary of his...
How are you, Tomek? What's up?
Nothing.
Hi, Tomek!
- Good morning.
- I brought you some new records.
- Are we recording?
- Yes.
This is tape no. 2...
Say what day it is, will you?
Today is July 19, 1986.
We're picking up
after a brief bathroom break.
Zdzislaw Beksinski and Piotr Dmochowski.
No, there aren't any
splatters, Grzesiek.
I recorded it as well
and watched it.
My copy is exactly the same.
Okay, bring it over to my folks
as usual and we'll see.
Jesus, I'm stuffed!
That makes me glad.
I'm happy for you.
It was great.
Could you go sit
with Granny Beksinska for a bit?
No, her room stinks
bad enough to make me puke.
She's the only mom your dad has.
She was your favorite grandma
when you were little.
She went with you
to put up your death notices.
Fine, all right, is that supposed
to make her stink any less?
Where is that thing...
It was right here.
- Where's the bottle opener?
- I moved it.
You keep saying a
lot of bad things, son.
You keep hurting everyone
and never, not even once,
think how difficult it is for us.
Do you hear me?
Good morning!
I can smell it was a busy night.
How are you today, baby girl?
Eyes wide open? That's progress!
All right, give us some steam.
You gave us a good run, Mother.
89 years is a great result,
but Grandma Stankiewicz
is moving toward a beautiful finish
at 90 years so far...
Zosia! Beksinska is dead!
Can I have two?
- Of course!
- Thanks.
Excuse me,
how long until we land in Rzeszow?
10 minutes.
That's funny.
I saw my numerologist yesterday
and he calculated
that this plane was going to crash.
Fancy that! Weren't you scared
to take this flight, then?
No, he also calculated that I'd make it.
Do you like wasting
your money on nonsense?
I like nonsense.
- Here you go.
- God bless you, young man.
May the good Lord
grant you a lot of children.
Here we go...
Jesus!
Faster, faster!
Out, out.
Jesus, there's a woman stuck in here!
Help me get her out!
Come on, help me!
Faster!
At midnight, in the month of July,
A mystic moon hangs in the sky.
Good evening.
This nighttime meeting
will be quite special.
I'm going to try
to tell you a story - amazing,
incredible, straddling
the boundary of dreams and reality.
Partly made up and partly true...
And thus, the tale which will take up
took place a long time ago...
What are you bad at, in your opinion?
At everything.
I even feel inferior to many painters.
I immediately feel all the things
I don't do well enough,
I feel everything I can't do.
Right now I can't see
the things I'm better at.
So for you
it's not a matter of internal strife.
You want to be better than everyone
else, and that's your problem,
not some childhood issues
or external influence.
I went through some strife,
don't you know.
But it didn't make me...
I have this sort of homeo...
- What do you call it?
- Homeostatic...?
Precisely. A homeostatic system
that makes me quickly regain balance.
My son doesn't have one.
He has an anti-homeostatic system.
Every tiny thing triggers an avalanche.
If you're in a boat
heading for a waterfall
which means certain death,
and there's a cactus
and an easy chair with you in that boat,
it'd be better to sit in that chair
instead of on the cactus, right?
Hope the new year brings you
good health and the power of genius!
Thank you, Piotr. Same to you!
I didn't believe you'd make it,
and I still don't.
Thanks. Hope I heard that wrong.
You're not going to write
about all that, right?
One guy was so diligent about
quoting his idol that the man ended up
looking like a monster. You're
not going to repeat all that, right?
Are you kidding?
I'm going to write everything down
as soon as I get home!
I don't want to lose a single word!
I just don't want people to know
I record every conversation on the sly.
Could we skip this one detail?
Bye.
How are you, Zdzisiek?
My head feels fit to split.
No idea how I'll make it through the week.
An awful stench
wafts out from every floor.
Seems like our downstairs neighbors
boil dead rats for lunch every day.
- The whole section is miserable.
- I'm completely stressed out!
Non-functional plumbing
has always been my greatest fear
and I don't think I can bear it!
How am I going to empty
Mother's crapper too?
- Take this.
- No idea how I'm going to manage.
Excuse me, sir!
- Yes?
- Are you Zbigniew Beksinski?
- The painter?
- I guess...
My flat is right across the road.
I've been watching you at work
through my binoculars...
Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord,
and let perpetual light shine upon them.
- I should go get Mom.
- No, let her cry.
That woman was simply indestructible.
So it's just the three of us left.
Like Genesis after Hackett left.
Me, I'm in no rush to leave.
Though I don't think
any of us could beat Grandma's record.
Yeah, she was tough as nails.
I heard Houston
gets the best results,
but this still means
a 15% mortality rate.
Another 15% of patients
end up paralyzed from the waist down.
Professor Hertzl from Berlin
saw your latest MRI scans.
He wants to bring his team hereto Anin
and perform a surgical demonstration
for Polish cardiac surgeons.
- So if you could...
- No, no, no!
The thought of being paralyzed
frightens me more than death itself.
Zosiu...
I've read Dmochowski's stuff.
Dear God! The things he wrote
about you, me and Tomek,
let alone other people, our grannies...
I don't want to see
that man in here ever again!
I don't want him to call,
don't want his money!
- We need to burn this.
- I think it's already out.
What a disgusting creature!
He's not human at all!
Oh, and don't let Tomek see this shit.
- Patrycja!
- Remember me?
Warmer...
The Reptile enters my tomb!
I knew you'd come back.
Jesus, it's been 11 years.
You're even more beautiful than before.
You've got a dangly thing here...
Oh, my!
- Not like that, Beksinski!
- Open your eye.
- Which one? I can't...
- Your left.
- Our superstar.
- Hey, Zdzisio, Grzesiek is filming us...
- Me, a star?
I should go get my sunglasses...
Fucking hell! Even in my own house
someone's taking my place!
Grzesiek's been coming over so often
that he's like a brother to you by now...
Shut your face!
Get the fuck out of here
if you don't know how to behave!
Your mother is dying!
Get out! Get the hell out!
- What do you mean: dying?
- Stop it...
Cut!
I wanted to give this to you today.
I've had it for 11 years,
hopefully it can still be useful.
I like this answering machine
better than your new one.
Thanks.
Mom has an aneurysm
that could burst at any time.
She has about a year left.
- Can't they get it out?
- No.
Promise you won't hurt yourself
while Mom is alive. All right?
Fine.
Stop it. Stop bawling.
Patrycja, I'm going to kill myself!
Save these threats for your parents.
I don't care anymore.
Why? Tell me why!
- Why what?
- Why can't you be with me?
You gave too much.
Make love to me.
Please, one last time... Please!
That's where you put in
the washing powder.
Right here.
Zdzisiek...
Tell me one thing.
I've been wondering...
It didn't let me sleep
these last few days.
What'll it be like?
Who's going to be in the tomb with me?
The Beksinski family.
Grandpa and Grandma,
Father and Mother...
And there's another coffin
there as well, a tiny one.
Why do you bother
thinking about these things?
You never told me
there was a baby in that tomb...
What does that matter?
We don't even know if it's a baby.
It's just a small coffin.
Fabric softener goes here. Right here.
It does matter to me,
because I'd like to know
who I'm going to be there with.
It's all pretty difficult,
I'd have to do some research...
There's no telling
what would come out of it.
- Shut the drawer.
- That's why Grandfather
didn't list any names on the tomb.
The inscription just says
BEKSINSKI FAMILY TOMB.
- Turn the dial...
- Let's leave it like this.
- And the start button.
- If it was up to me, I'd write:
Here lie the Beksinskis.
Kiss their asses.
They'd never let you do that.
Wait, let me put it up higher.
I'd like to rest by that tiny coffin.
It's in the lower part of the tomb.
You'll be up by Grandma Beksinska.
I'm going to think
that it's our baby daughter's coffin.
Now that was absurd!
Honey, it barely even
got to the scrambled-eggs stage!
That's what I'm going to think.
At least let me have this much.
Mom is dead.
Farewell, Zosia.
Did you call the ambulance?
There's no point.
Mom...
Mommy...
What are we going to do?
Mom...
Mommy, no...
Could you build in a weaker spot
to the right of the door?
In case the lock got stuck
and I couldn't get it open...
- I'll pay extra for that, of course.
- Naturally.
We'll put in a circle of perforated brick.
Thank you.
Dear Piotr! I'm writing to invite you
to smoke the peace pipe.
I would have done this earlier,
but Zosia couldn't forgive you
for some of the things
you wrote about our family,
particularly with regard to Tomek.
He still isn't your fan,
but I think he didn't read your book
because he wasn't interested.
EVENING WITH A VAMPIRE
Who would've thought that the translator
of Monty Python's Flying Circus
would turn out to be...
almost an actual vampire!
He says he likes the city -
but mainly at night.
He says foreplay should begin
with the woman getting out of her coffin.
His answering machine says
"You have reached Nosferatu..."
Tonight's guest is Tomasz Beksinski!
I'm used to a certain order.
The whole day should go
according to a certain schedule.
If someone disrupts it,
I'm liable to get really upset
and find it hard to actually function.
So how are you going to handle...
- Well, Ewa is an Uberwoman.
- What's an uberwoman?
An Uberwoman is a woman who can
stand me. And the other way around.
You're not having
these attacks anymore?
Of course I'm not!
- Finally grew out of it?
- You could say that.
Plus, I think that over
the last few years
I haven't experienced this sort of...
Reality-induced suffering
which made me want to escape.
I escape into movies every single day,
I think that absorbs some of that pain.
Come here.
Stand up. Stand up!
Do it yourself.
Ewa!
I want to watch.
You want me to jack off
on our anniversary?
I want us to do something
different tonight. Please.
Aren't we having fun though?
Kiss me...
You're crazy.
Why would I play with myself
if I have you?
- I just...
- I'm not in the mood anymore.
- I need to watch a movie.
- Sure...
Listen... Hey!
I'm here to play with you.
Quit ignoring me! Look at me, Tomek!
I want to play.
Give me this tape. Gimme that!
- Let's have some other kind of fun...
- Fucking shit!
What are you doing?
Stop it, calm down!
- You have access to all the data.
- I'm sorry...
- And now you'll pay for it!
- Calm down!
Tomek, stop it! I'm sorry!
You'll see how fun it is to fucking smash
your heart against a wall!
Calm down!
Hi.
You use them like a real Chinaman.
I'm old. Take care of me.
Should I change your diapers?
Let's get your last will
written down to avoid legal issues.
All right.
Maybe if you had spanked me,
even just once,
I could've figured out
where the boundaries lie.
Don't worry, I don't hold this
against you. I know you very well.
It's so good!
I won.
Hi.
The hands of the clock
implacably race ahead.
The designated end
of this century and millennium
is less than 3 weeks away.
In 2 weeks it'll be Christmas,
and 3 weeks from now
the year will be 2000.
Do you realize that this is
our last meeting of the 1990s?
This could even be
our last meeting ever -
nobody knows what's going to happen...
Zdzislaw Beksinski speaking.
I'm sure he's asleep.
He's been staying up all night working
recently. I saw him after lunch.
He was in a decent mood.
All right, I'll check on him.
Take care, Ania.
Thank you.
Merry Christmas. See you.
Zdzislaw Beksinski here.
Congratulations.
DON'T FOOL YOURSELF!
NO ONE SEES ANYTHING
- Yes?
- Nowak.
Come in.
- Good morning.
Pleased to meet you.
I bet all people have some
hidden needs, but they're afraid
to ever let these feelings come out,
because they could end up disavowed,
ridiculed...
Me, I've always dreamed
about raping someone. Yes.
But I knew I'd never actually do it,
because I despise violence,
I'm a sophisticated person.
Such things are simply not done.
I didn't even spank Tomek,
because I was afraid
that I would turn out to be a sadist
who delights in beating children.
We all have our preferences and dreams -
and, most importantly,
everyone has as much right
to their dreams as I do to mine.
Are you recording this?
Naturally!
You should do too.
Maybe then you'd hear
how often you keep interrupting me.
You haven't changed a bit.
So let's say I fire up my computer
to order a tuned-up
version of Alicia Silverstone...
- Good evening.
Dad will be right up, he's talking
with some woman downstairs.
- I'll just have a Coke.
- Of course.
Kindly throw away the cup
when you're done, please.
What do you kids
call trash cans these days?
Creme de la creme...
- Toilet.
- What?
Sorry, my hearing aid is acting up.
It's strange. The battery's brand new.
What's taking them so long?
Could you go get your father?
You'll end up in the garbage chute
tomorrow after physio.
I don't have time to wait.
It's not that early anymore...
Listen...
THE LAST FAMILY